Explaining blockchain to a layman:
Blockchain is like a record-book. It keeps track of everything that happens in its environment. But the specialty with blockchain compared to normal record-keeping is that a large number of people keep these record-books. Since a large number of people keep the record, if at all a change(like transaction happens) then it has to be noted in all the record books. If someone tries to manipulate the details it will be in vain as the TRUTH will be considered as what the majority says, so we don't have to trust a particular person. This prevents people from manipulating this record. Also, this record is visible to the public giving transparency. This record-book cannot be censored because it is with a large number of people across the world and burning a few will not affect the chain. Each person keeping this record will have benefits like a small amount of money.

Do you think blockchain technology can revolutionize the world?

Yes! I do think. The ideologies of blockchain are same or better than the Internet 1.0. It is built on the idea of liberty. We get to decide what happens to our data. Corruption is present everywhere, it affects the general public in large when corruption is in government. By integrating the blockchain technology to the activities of government especially to fund utilization and documents, people will give better transparency and also prevent manipulation of data. There are millions of people who don't have bank accounts as they don't have enough documents, but blockchain technologies such as Bitcoin can help these people. There are also examples where international help was directly transferred to people using blockchain, increasing speed, and efficiency. Blockchain will kick out the middleman from everywhere. For a transaction between two people bank is the middleman. For using their service they charge a fee. This fee can be reduced significantly with the blockchain. There are also incidents where the assets of people stored in banks were used by banks to improve their financial states. This is also a common problem in companies that don't give much information about their auditing details. This shows a lack of transparency. With a public blockchain, we can solve these problems. Blockchain can reduce the time required for the international transfer of money. Blockchain is now used to keep medical records, sell intellectual property, and so on. In the coming years, things will get better. Sooner or later most of the people will switch to the blockchain technology.
